Docs: Interactivity API - Add viewScriptModule as a requirement to work with the Interactivity API (#61355)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/reference-guides/interactivity-api/README.md

- [Code Editor](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/#code-editor)
- [Node.js development tools](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/#node-js-development-tools)
- [Local WordPress environment (site)](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/devenv/#local-wordpress-environment)

You can start creating interactions once you set up a block development environment and run WordPress 6.5+ (or Gutenberg 17.5+).

### Code requirements

#### Add `interactivity` support to `block.json`

To indicate that the block [supports](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-supports/) the Interactivity API features, add `"interactivity": true` to the `supports` attribute of the block's `block.json` file.

```json
// block.json
"supports": {
    "interactivity": true
},
```

Refer to the [`interactivity` support property docs](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-supports/#interactivity) to get a more detailed description of this property.

#### Load Interactivity API Javascript code with `viewScriptModule`

> The Interactivity API provides the `@wordpress/interactivity` Script Module. JavaScript using the Interactivity API should be implemented as Script Modules so they can depend on `@wordpress/interactivity`. [Script Modules have been available since WordPress from 6.5](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/03/04/script-modules-in-6-5/). Blocks can use [`viewScriptModule` [block metadata](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-metadata/#view-script-module) to enqueue their Script Modules easily:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Interactivity API provides the `@wordpress/interactivity` Script Module. JavaScript using the Interactivity API should be implemented as Script Modules so they can depend on `@wordpress/interactivity`. [Script Modules have been available since WordPress 6.5](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/03/04/script-modules-in-6-5/). Blocks can use [`viewScriptModule` [block metadata](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-metadata/#view-script-module) to enqueue their Script Modules easily:
```

To indicate that the block [supports](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-supports/) the Interactivity API features, add `"interactivity": true` to the `supports` attribute of the block's `block.json` file.

```json
// block.json
"supports": {
    "interactivity": true
},
```

Refer to the [`interactivity` support property docs](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-supports/#interactivity) to get a more detailed description of this property.

#### Load Interactivity API Javascript code with `viewScriptModule`

> The Interactivity API script requires using Javascript modules that can be [natively loaded in WordPress from v6.5](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/03/04/script-modules-in-6-5/). The JavaScript files using the Interactivity API, should be enqueued via the [`viewScriptModule` block metadata](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-metadata/#view-script-module):

Reviewer: The "WordPress v6.5" looks inconsistent, other places in this document we refer to "WordPress 6.5". I left some other suggestions here as well trying to make this clear and precise, please do with it what you see fit:

```suggestion
The Interactivity API provides the `@wordpress/interactivity` Script Module. JavaScript using the Interactivity API should be implemented as Script Modules so they can depend on `@wordpress/interactivity`. [Script Modules have been available since WordPress from 6.5](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/03/04/script-modules-in-6-5/). Block can use [`viewScriptModule` block metadata](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-metadata/#view-script-module) to easily enqueue their Script Modules:
```

```json
// block.json
{
   ...
   "viewScriptModule": "file:./view.js"
}
```

#### Add `wp-interactive` directive to a DOM element

> To "activate" the Interactivity API in a DOM element (and its children), add the [`wp-interactive`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-interactivity/packages-interactivity-api-reference/#wp-interactive) directive to the element in the block's `render.php` or `save.js` files. Its value must be the unique namespace of your plugin or block:

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is accurate. The namespace is an Interactivity API concept. It _may_ match your plugin or block name. Or you may develop a plugin that shares the same namespace across many blocks.

I want to make sure we're not conflating a block name with an Interactivity API store - the namespaces are really about the stores and don't technically have anything to do with block names. They're unique store identifiers.

Author: Thanks for the explanation, @sirreal.

Can this directive be used without a value?
Example:
```
<div data-wp-interactive>
    <!-- Interactivity API zone -->
</div>
```

Is there any way directives can specify the store they want to use for a specific callback (on a directive level)?

Reviewer: Yes!

I just did some testing and it looks like `data-wp-interactive` is sufficient to recognize an interactive region.

Other stores can be accessed by prefixing the directive values with `namespace::` like this: `interactiveNamespace::state.whatever`. So if you have another store like `store( "otherNS", { state: { title: "Hello" } } )` you could do this:

```html
<div data-wp-interactive>
    <h1 data-wp-text="otherNS::state.title"></h1>
</div>
```

---

I went to this page to look it up: https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/03/04/interactivity-api-dev-note/
I think the section "Working with other namespaces" should have described this but it looks like had some of the code samples broken. FYI @cbravobernal (I think the syntaxhighlighter block breaks HTML fairly often and it may be better to use the code block).

Author: Oks, I have removed the part about "Its value must be the unique namespace of your plugin or block:" as it's confusing and it seems too specific for these introductory steps.

Any additional explanations and clarifications should be added to the [`wp-interactive` documentation](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/interactivity-api/api-reference/#wp-interactive)
